Did you know...A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose.
Did you know...According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight.
Did you know...It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own.
Did you know...Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago.
Did you know...The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime.
Did you know...A healthy 10-pound cat only needs about 220-350 calories a day, while a human needs roughly 2,000.
Did you know...Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death.
Did you know...Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes in relation to body size.
Did you know...Cats have 24 more bones than humans.
Did you know...According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens.
Did you know...Cats actually have dreams, just like humans. They start dreaming when they reach a week old.
Did you know...Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they’re poisonous to cats.
Did you know...As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.
Did you know...Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day.
Did you know...Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10.
Did you know...A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump.
Did you know...A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute.
Did you know...A cat purrs at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, which is about 26 purrs per second.
Did you know...Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Did you know...In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
Did you know...It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
Did you know...A cat will spend nearly 30% of her life grooming herself.
Did you know...Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Did you know...Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Did you know...A domestic cat can sprint at about 31 miles per hour.
Did you know...Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Did you know...Cats sleep 70% of their life.
Did you know...The world's richest cat is worth $70 million dollars.
Did you know...Cats can see up to 120 feet away.   Their peripheral vision is about 285 degrees.
