Did you know... Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
Did you know... On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Did you know... Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
Did you know... When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Did you know... The technical term for a cat's hairball is a 'bezoar.'
Did you know... A group of cats is called a 'clowder.'
Did you know... Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Did you know... A cat can't climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat's paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Did you know... Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
Did you know... A cat's brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog's. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Did you know... There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
Did you know... Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Did you know... While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Did you know... During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
Did you know... During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John's Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
Did you know... Cats are North America's most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
Did you know... The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. 'Astrocat') In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
Did you know... The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Did you know... The term 'puss' is the root of the principal word for 'cat' in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that 'puss' could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat's attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
Did you know... Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
Did you know... According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Did you know... A cat's hearing is better than a dog's. And a cat can hear high-frequency sounds up to two octaves higher than a human.
Did you know... A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
Did you know... A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
Did you know... Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their 'righting reflex.' The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
Did you know... A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat's scent.
Did you know... Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
Did you know... When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Did you know... In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Did you know... Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Did you know... Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
Did you know... The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means 'first cat' in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Did you know... The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Did you know... The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
Did you know... Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman's body and a cat's head.
Did you know... Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an 'M' for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat's head.
Did you know... While many parts of Europe and North America consider the black cat a sign of bad luck, in Britain and Australia, black cats are considered lucky.
Did you know... The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Did you know... The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.
Did you know... Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by 'crossing' its eyes.
Did you know... Researchers believe the word 'tabby' comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
Did you know... Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it's wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Did you know... The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for 'cat.'
Did you know... The costliest cat ever is named Little Nicky, who cost his owner $50,000. He is a clone of an older cat.
Did you know... A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
Did you know... A cat's eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It's worse because they don't see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Did you know... Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam's first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child's breath.
Did you know... Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Did you know... In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Did you know... In Holland's embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Did you know... The little tufts of hair in a cat's ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called 'ear furnishings.'
Did you know... The ability of a cat to find its way home is called 'psi-traveling.' Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
Did you know... Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
Did you know... The world's rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat's dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
Did you know... A cat's jaw can't move sideways, so a cat can't chew large chunks of food.
Did you know... A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Did you know... A cat's back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Did you know... Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
Did you know... All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Did you know... Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
Did you know... A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Did you know... In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.
Did you know... Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
Did you know... Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
Did you know... One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Did you know... Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Did you know... The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
Did you know... The oldest cat on record was Crème Puff from Austin, Texas, who lived from 1967 to August 6, 2005, three days after her 38th birthday. A cat typically can live up to 20 years, which is equivalent to about 96 human years.
Did you know... The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Did you know... The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
Did you know... A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Did you know... In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
Did you know... The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Did you know... The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon 'Puss Gets the Boot.' In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot's Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats.
Did you know... The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 degrees and 102.5 degrees F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 degrees or above 103 degrees F.
Did you know... A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Did you know... A cat's nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Did you know... If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 degrees F.
Did you know... Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that's for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
Did you know... A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
Did you know... A cat's heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
Did you know... Cats don't have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
Did you know... In just seven years, a single pair of cats and their offspring could produce a staggering total of 420,000 kittens.
Did you know... Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals' canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
Did you know... Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
Did you know... Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Did you know... A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
Did you know... The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Did you know... Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
Did you know... In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Did you know... A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
Did you know... In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98 degrees F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won't darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Did you know... There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
Did you know... The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Did you know... The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a pane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
Did you know... The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of 100,000 GBP ($154,000).
Did you know... The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Did you know... The richest cat is Blackie who was left 15 million GBP by his owner, Ben Rea.
Did you know... The claws on the cat's back paws aren't as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don't retract and, consequently, become worn.
Did you know...
Did you know... Cats can drink sea water to re-hydrate themselves!
Did you know... Cats have been blamed for the global extinction of 33 species
Did you know... A cat will almost never meow at another cat. Cats use this sound for humans.
Did you know... Cats, unlike dogs, do not learn tricks to win your approval. Cats can be taught to perform tasks such as retrieving toys and jumping through hoops - but it may take patience and perseverance…and quite a few yummy treats for your feline.
Did you know... A cat uses its whiskers as feelers to determine if a space is too small to squeeze through.
Did you know... A cat can be either right-pawed or left-pawed.
Did you know... A cat can jump as much as 7 times its height.
Did you know... Cats cannot break a sweat because they have no sweat glands.
Did you know... A cat's brain is more similar to a human's brain than that of a dog.
Did you know... A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night.
Did you know... A cat's tongue is scratchy because it's lined with papillae - tiny backwards hooks that help to hold prey in place.
Did you know... A fifteen year old cat has probably spent ten years of its life sleeping.
Did you know... A frightened cat can run at speeds of up to 31 mph, slightly faster than a human sprinter.
Did you know... All kittens are born with blue eyes.
Did you know... Ancient Egyptians believed worshiped cats were sacred animals.
Did you know... In Asia and England, a black cat is considered lucky.
Did you know... Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
Did you know... Cats can see color. Studies have shown that cats can distinguish between red and green; red and blue; red and gray; green and blue; green and gray; blue and gray; yellow and blue, and yellow and gray.
Did you know... Cats have a third eyelid that is rarely visible. If it can be seen, it could be an indication of ill health.
Did you know... Cats lack a true collarbone and can generally squeeze their bodies through any space they can get their heads through.
Did you know... You should talk to your cat often. Cats love to hear the sound of their own name and your voice.
Did you know... Cats, not dogs, are the most common pets in America.
Did you know... Human painkillers such acetaminophen (Tylenol) are toxic to cats.
Did you know... Chocolate is also poisonous to both cats and dogs.
Did you know... A female cat may have three to seven kittens every four months. This is why having your pets spayed and neutered is so important.
Did you know... Ailurophilia is the love of cats.
Did you know... The most popular names for female cats in the U.S. are Missy, Misty, Muffin, Patches, Fluffy, Tabitha, Tigger, Pumpkin and Samantha.
Did you know... Cats rub their faces against objects to claim them as their territory and if they do so against your face, you just been named an honorary member of that cat's family.
Did you know... A cat uses its whiskers to determine if a space is too small to squeeze through.
Did you know... The average house cat spends approximately 10,950 hours purring in a lifetime.
Did you know... A cat can live twenty or more years.
Did you know... The average age for an indoor cat is 15 years, while the average age for an outdoor cat is only 3 to 5 years.
Did you know... The oldest cat on record was Puss, from England, who died in 1939 just one day after her 36th birthday.  (We wish we could have them all that long!)
Did you know... Most cats have no eyelashes.
Did you know... Cat's fur easily becomes charged with electricity and sparks can be seen if their fur is rubbed in the dark.
Did you know... Cats purr at 26 cycles per second, the same as an idling diesel engine.
Did you know... A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Did you know... If your cat is near you, and her tail is quivering, this is the greatest expression of love your cat can give you. If her tail starts thrashing, her mood has changed --- Time to distance yourself from her.
Did you know... A cat keeps purring, no matter if it is inhaling or exhaling.
Did you know...A cat's field of vision does not cover the area right under its nose.
Did you know...According to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention (APOP), about 50 million of our cats are overweight.
Did you know...It is important to include fat in your cat's diet because they're unable to make the nutrient in their bodies on their own.
Did you know...Today, cats are living twice as long as they did just 50 years ago.
Did you know...The world's most fertile cat, whose name was Dusty, gave birth to 420 kittens in her lifetime.
Did you know...A healthy 10-pound cat only needs about 220-350 calories a day, while a human needs roughly 2,000.
Did you know...Because of widespread cat smuggling in ancient Egypt, the exportation of cats was a crime punishable by death.
Did you know...Call them wide-eyes: cats are the mammals with the largest eyes in relation to body size.
Did you know...Cats have 24 more bones than humans.
Did you know...According to the Guinness World Records, the largest domestic cat litter totaled at 19 kittens.
Did you know...Cats actually have dreams, just like humans. They start dreaming when they reach a week old.
Did you know...Caution during Christmas: poinsettias may be festive, but they're poisonous to cats.
Did you know...As temperatures rise, so do the number of cats. Cats are known to breed in warm weather, which leads many animal advocates worried about the plight of cats under Global Warming.
Did you know...Cats sleep 16 hours of any given day.
Did you know...Cats have over 100 sounds in their vocal repertoire, while dogs only have 10.
Did you know...A cat can reach up to five times its own height per jump.
Did you know...A cat's heart beats almost double the rate of a human heart, from 110 to 140 beats per minute.
Did you know...A cat purrs at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, which is about 26 purrs per second.
Did you know...Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
Did you know...In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
Did you know...It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
Did you know...A cat will spend nearly 30% of her life grooming herself.
Did you know...Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Did you know...Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Did you know...A domestic cat can sprint at about 31 miles per hour.
Did you know...Cat's urine glows under a black light.
Did you know...Cats sleep 70% of their life.
Did you know...The world's richest cat is worth $70 million dollars.
Did you know...Cats can see up to 120 feet away. Their peripheral vision is about 285 degrees.
